yet another effort to bring calm to the
Middle East US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin has arrived in the hope
of securing a ceasefire between Israel
and Hamas this is his fifth trip to the
region since the Hamas Terror attacks of
October 7th Lincoln is in Saudi Arabia
and is also stopping in Egypt Qatar and
Israel the proposed deal would allow the
phased release of Israeli hostages in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners
Lincoln also wants to prevent further
Regional escalation of the conflict
the US has retaliated against attacks on
its forces with air strikes on houthi
rebels in Yemen and other militias
backed by
Iran tww correspondent Ben fulan is in
Jerusalem he told us earlier what's at
stake for blinkin with this
visit quite a lot at stake all right
Sarah you can say that uh first of all
there's the worry about Regional spread
I mean already this is escalating and uh
we're receiving reports uh thre of
reprisal attacks in Syria on a us-backed
Kurdish group uh with some deaths
reported there in a deadly drone attack
that's in response uh to the attacks
that the US and the UK have launched um
there have been us deaths the first US
US deaths in this conflict as you know
uh which sparked this response in the US
saying this is just going to be the
beginning uh Saudi Arabia there's a lot
of St
uh for that Nation it wants to normalize
relations with Israel and that would be
in return for some sort of security PCT
from the US and then of course you've
got the security and safety of some 1
million Palestinian civilians all
crammed into Rafa right now uh the
problem being with them being crammed
into that region uh is that Israel is
threatening to move in there it's
already launched strikes uh with scores
dying overnight on the outskirt of Rafa
uh whether or not this military
operation pushes further into Rafa is
the big question so much at stake not
just for those civilians but also the
more than 100 hostages uh from Israel
that are being held hostage in Gaza
right now that was Ben fulan there
reporting from Israel I want to bring in
now Dalia dasak she is a senior fellow
at the UCLA burkel Center for
international relations she is currently
a full bright visiting scholar in Sweden
at Lund University she joins us now from
Sweden it's good to have you with us
Dalia you know so far we've heard from
Hamas that it will not agree to any deal
unless that it gets a guarantee that
Israel will pull out of Gaza and stop
the fighting Israel has rejected that so
are these negotiations working on
non-starters well I think there's still
attempts to get a breakthrough I'm sure
this is the highest priority for
secretary blinkin on this current trip
uh there is a real need to put a halt to
this fighting um at least for a shorter
term the US still continues to oppose a
a permanent ceasefire but there needs to
be a stop and the hostages must get out
so it isn't looking good at the moment
but a lot of sure is happening behind
the scenes uh and hopefully there will
be a breakthrough yeah it's not looking
good let's talk a moment about Optics
here we we've got Anthony blinc coming
to the Middle East at the same time on
the very same day you've got the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Ned Yahoo saying
or talking about total victory over
Hamas are these two men um talking past
each
other well uh prime minister NATO's
comments are certainly unhelpful uh it
is uh going to be impossible to get a
deal um if if he continues to take this
kind of stance of course he's taking a
lot of these stances for domestic
audiences it's very clear that he has uh
you know a lot of pressure from his
right flank not to give in not to have
any pause in this war the Israeli
population is mixed uh more than half of
the population really focused on getting
the hostages out as a priority um but a
but a large part of the population still
very supportive of continuing this
campaign until Hamas is significantly
degraded and cannot threaten Israel
again so it's a real Bond um but there
is an urgency given the humanitarian
catastrophe it's highest on the US
agenda highest on the regional agenda
that is very much backing a ceasefire as
soon as possible do you do you think
that Anthony blinkin may be do trying to
do the business of a lame duck president
and and I asked that because you know we
were hearing that we could see that all
of these parties in the Middle East just
buy their time until the US election in
November waiting to see if there's going
to be a change in the white house um so
that really makes Biden's work even that
much greater doesn't it
well there's always that a political
context but I have to say this is really
a strategic issue and um the region
cannot wait until the US election there
is really as your reporting just
demonstrated dire conditions on the
ground in Gaza uh Israeli hostages uh by
last count I think 136 we don't know how
many are still alive uh still uh in
prison in Gaza uh the urgency is of
highest order so I I think it's
important and you know I'm sure there
are preferences in the region uh but
this is really a strategic question not
a domestic one and secretary blinkin
this is his fifth trip to the Middle
East since the terror attacks back in
October it seems each time that he has
come over to the Middle East the stakes
have gotten even bigger excuse me and
that's where we are right now I'm
thinking about these you know these tit
fortat attacks that have been going on
between Iran's proxies and the United
States how much leverage does the United
States have right now considering it
wants to prevent an escalation of the
violence it's extremely worrying
situation uh and is the other uh very
high agenda item I'm sure on secretary
blinken's visit to contain this conflict
and the record so far has been mixed
unfortunately uh despite this us
response to attacks over 160 attacks on
its forces in sah Iraq uh and now
intervening against the houthis in the
Yemen uh theater uh these attacks are
continuing we just had another attack
last night on us-backed Kurdish forces
in Syria that were fighting against Isis
uh it's extremely worrying and hard to
know if this is sustainable and
everybody talks about calibrated
controlled strikes and the US certainly
is not looking for a war with Iran which
is why these retaliations happened uh in
this Syrian and and it's going to likely
be contained in the Syrian Iraqi theater
not in Iran itself it doesn't look like
Iran is looking for a full-scale war but
it's very hard to keep this situation
controlled when uh proxies and militia
forces are so
unpredictable and already the US is much
more involved than it had intended to be
so it's it's worrying D DK with the UCLA
burkel Center for international
relations joining us tonight from Sweden
we appreciate your time and your
analysis thank
you thank
you